Refernce - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npgbI8KYvN8 
Things mentioned below - Excel, Business metrics, Mean, Media, Mode, Variance, Standard Deviation, Correlation
- Excel
expense sheet example
date drag to copy paste the date series, Jan 1 - drag to fill other months
=sum formulae to find sum
=unique to show the unique values in columns (categorise expenses)
=sumif to find sum of expense in each category

By default it will be just cells and rows
we can select the data part and insert table from top menu to convert it to a table
This will allow you to do more things with the cells and make it dynamic

We can name tables as well to address and use it.
This will make it easier to find sum mentioned above. Before we need to mention column names, A1-A12 etc inside the sum formulae.
if a new row is added, it wont reflect the sum in above case.
With table, we can say sum(table name[columnname]), this will always calculate the sum of elements
in the column if we add more rows later.

You can add slicer as well for tables for categories rows. This can let you categorically filter rows by pressing each category.

There is something called table design if we select table on the menu on top, 
from there we can insert total table as well, then we can select sum, avg, count etc
so we dont really need to explicitly put the sum formulae

Example:
There is a table with all bollywood and hollywood data, with budget and revenue in billions, millions, int, dollar etc
Need to create extra columns to convert them to a common currency and common unit
then find sum, count, avg etc
New column1: IF(currency = INR, amount * 80) - comnvert to dollars id currency is Inroads
New column2: IF(unit = million, amount * 1000) - convert to million
Based on this, we can find total revenue, profit, profit % etc

- Business metrics
there is a table for all movies in hollywood
need to find the total budget, revenue, profit/loss %, market share of just marvel studios among all the other 

- Mean media mode
Mean is average
sometimes mean may not give the correct impression
For example, if we are finding the salary mean of group of people in a place to do a market research
If there is one person who is an outlier(has far more or less salary than the rest), then mean will be not appropriate metric to find insights.
In that case we will find median
Median is middle value after sorting the list in ascending order or descending
if numbner of items is even, then find average of middle numbers

- Mode - is freqently occured value in a column 
With respect to movie table, it has imdb rating, we can find mean and median, then mode to find which rating occurs most number of times.


Variance and Standard Deviation
Variance is the sum of squares of average differnce between each value with mean
For example, if we are finding mean of percapita income of two cities.
may be we get same mean, but in one place all the salaries may be in that range of average
but in other city, the difference could be huge, some people have high oncome and some have low income
so income inequalities is higher in that city.
in such cases, we can find the difference of each value with mean
we will find mean-income for each salary, this could be -ve and +ve values
we will square it to make it positive, then find average of these values - this gives the variance

- Standard deviation - square root of variance give standard deviation

--  Case studies of standard deviation and variance
--- selectig right school for kid
Can check marks of students and variance value lower means everyone has almost same marks
if the variance is higher that means, some kids are studying on their own. Same average with other school doesnt mean
both schools give same kind of training. School with lower variance means all kids are getting same kind of training.
--- choosing right stock to invest
can check the variance and SD of daily stock rates of two companies to identify the volatility rates and see which one is more stable.
Lower variance means that company is stable and hight variance means its not stable, its fluctuating.
So those who wants to take less risks can go with stocks with less variance and SD

- Correlation
It is an index that tells relation between two data types
it ranges from -1 -> 1
-ve values means negetive correlation and 1 means maximum positive correlation
and 0 means no corelation at all
-- Example of square feet and price
If we check the corelation it will be close to 1 because they are positively correlated. If squarefeet increase price also increase. if we do a scatterplot chart, 
we can draw a line and datapoints will lie on same line or nearby that line
if one variable increases, other variable also increases and same with decreasing values in positive correlation
-- Radius and area of circle is another example of this positive corelation

-- if you look at blood sugar and height as variables, there will not be any corelation because there is no relationship between them. Value will be either 0 or close to 0

-- if you look at commute time and employee happiness, it will be negetively correlated.
   higher the commute time lower the happiness index, so its -vely correlated
